{{Grammar nav}}

This page references elements defined in [[Markup spec/BNF/Fundamental elements]] and [[Markup spec/BNF/Article title]]

:''Internal and external links work fundamentally differently in MediaWiki, and should likely be treated separately. --[[User:Brion VIBBER|Brion VIBBER]] 04:08, 29 May 2006 (UTC)''

::Do you mean to separate out their definitions, or to remove the <link> element and add its current definition wherever it would otherwise be used?  I think it makes logical sense to keep the top-level <link> definition, but I have separated out the definitions, which I hope will aid clarity. --[[User:HappyDog|HappyDog]] 13:46, 29 May 2006 (UTC)

== Link definitions ==

=== Top level definition ===

<source lang=bnf>
<link>			::= <internal-link> | <external-link>
</source>

=== Internal links ===

<source lang=bnf>
<internal-link>		::= <internal-link-start> <article-link>  [ "#" <section-id> ] [ <pipe> [<link-description>] ] <internal-link-end> [<extra-description>]

/* Parser actually considers namespace and subpages to just be part of the article-title, and deals with them later. */
<article-link>		::= [<interwiki-prefix> | ":" ] [<namespace-prefix] <article-title>

/* if subpages: */
/* not properly fleshed out, haven not tried all the combinations */
<article-link>          ::= [<interwiki-prefix> | ":"] [<namespace-prefix] <article-title>
                         | "/" <article-title>
                         | { "../" } [<article-title>]

<article-title>         ::= { [<title-legal-chars> | "%" ] } +

/* Specified using regex format, obviously... */
<title-legal-chars>     ::= " %!\"$&'()*,\\-.\\/0-9:;=?@A-Z\\\\^_`a-z~\\x80-\\xFF+"


<interwiki-prefix>	::= <interwiki> ":"
<interwiki>		::= STRING_FROM_DB

<namespace-prefix>	::= [<namespace>] ":"
<namespace>		::= STRING_FROM_CONFIG
/* is it? parser.php gives it as  "[_0-9A-Za-z\x80-\xff]" */

<link-description>	::= LEGAL_ARTICLE_ENTITY
<extra-description>	::= <letter> [<extra-description>]

<internal-link-start>	::= "[["
<internal-link-end>	::= "]]"

<pipe>			::= "|"

/* Almost anything seems to be allowed, but it won't necessarily be treated as an actual section title */
<section-id>            ::= { [<title-legal-chars> | "%" | "#" ] } + 
</source>

;Remarks
:Logically, internal-link should be matched in preference to external-link, as that's how the current parser does it. However, the current parser also explicitly checks for an accidental match of an external link in an inside link (that is, <nowiki>[[http://foo.com]]</nowiki>) and converts it back to an external link. 
:<code>if (preg_match('/^\b(?:' . wfUrlProtocols() . ')/', $m[1])) { $s .= $prefix . '[[' . $line ; continue; } </code>

=== Categories ===
In the current parser, categories are just a mildly special case of an internal link. But to the user they seem quite different, and the final behaviour is very different. So let's treat them specially.

<source lang=bnf>
/* section-ids are technically tolerated currently. but they do nothing and aren't used. */
/* similarly a pipe without a sort key is technically tolerated but isn't useful. */
<category>		::= <internal-link-start> <category-namespace> ":" <article-title> [ <pipe> <sort-key> ] <internal-link-end>

<category-namespace>    ::= NS_CATEGORY
/* set in languages/messages/MessagesXx.php. By default, "Category" */

/* <article-title> specified above. for a category, it's possibly more restrictive. */
/* other bits specified above. */

</source>

;Remarks
:A link *to* a category is handled by internal-link above.

====Rendering====
A category link produces no inline text. However, the fact of the link (with possible manual sort key) is stored, and possibly rendered by the skin.

=== External links ===

<source lang=bnf>
<external-link>		::= <external-link-start> <url> [<whitespace>] [<link-description>] <external-link-end> 
			    | <url>

<url>			::= <protocol> <url-path>
<protocol>		::= ALLOWED_PROTOCOL_FROM_CONFIG (e.g. "http://", "mailto:")
<url-path>		::= <url-char> [<url-path>]
<url-char>		::= LEGAL_URL_ENTITY

<external-link-start>	::= "["
<external-link-end>	::= "]"
</source>

== Transformations ==
=== Internal link to HTML ===

 URL = <a href=$1?title=$2$3"$4 title="$2">$5$6</a>

Where

 if <interwiki> is blank
   $1 = internal variable $wgScript
 else
   $1 = looked up in DB, based on value of <interwiki>
 $2 = <namespace-prefix> <article-link>
 If destination page exists
   $3 = "'''''&amp;amp;action=edit'''''"
   $4 = "''''' class="new"'''''"
 else
   $3 and $4 are blank
 If <description> is blank
   $5 = <article-link>
 else
   $5 = <description>
 $6 = <extra-description>


[[Category:Parser|BNF/Links]]